An ecosystem of corporate politicians
=====================================

Portugal 1975-2013
------------------

An interactive visualization of the relationships between members of Portuguese
governments and companies for the period of 1975 to 2013. Data is approached as
an ecosystem, where each set of interdependent relations are regulated by
physical conditions—each politician has a sequence of companies to visit,
chasing them and jumping between them, in order to restart the sequence each
time it is completed.

See the visualization in [http://pmcruz.com/eco](<http://pmcruz.com/eco>).

 

### Data

The data was collected from a
[study](<http://www.donosdeportugal.net/p/politica-e-negocios.html>) of politics
and businesses done for the documentary “[Donos de
Portugal](<http://www.donosdeportugal.net>)” which covers the relations of
ministers and secretaries of state of Portuguese governments with companies,
roughly from 1975 to 2010. This study was complemented with our own research of
their positions in companies until 2013.

In addition, other politicians and companies were added from an “[Exploratory
study about political connections of stock companies in
Portugal](<http://www.aeca.es/xvencuentroaeca/cd/43h.pdf>)”, and another hand
full that we deemed relevant but always with high governmental positions
(ministers, secretaries of state and prime-ministers).

It should also be noticed that the gathered information was always included from
public sources, such as companies' governing bodies available online, companies'
public reports, news from the online press and public résumés. This resulted in
more than 130 gathered politicians and more than 350 companies that are still
being added to the system as we conclude our research. Although this data is
only a sample of the real dimension of traffic between companies and governments
in Portugal, it is indeed highly illustrative of the subject.

**The data is available in the JSON format in js/worms/data/worms\_12jan.json.
Companies are created through this file by using their name as the identifier.
An additional data file js/worms/data/grouping.json enables to attribute
long/additional names to the companies and to group several companies into one
by using the “related” attribute. Grouping can be used to merge several
companies into big corporate groups.**

 

### Authors

My name is [Pedro Miguel Cruz](<http://pmcruz.com>), I like to shape things, and
this is the form that I gave to this subject. A big thank you to Cátia Costa,
member of the [Computational Design and Visualization Lab at University of
Coimbra](<https://www.cisuc.uc.pt/groups/show/cms>), that researched, ratified
and typed almost 9000 lines of data, with rigor and perseverance. A big
shout-out to my supervisor [Penousal Machado](<http://fmachado.dei.uc.pt>)
without whom this work wouldn't be possible as it is. A word of appreciation for
the wisdom to Alexandre Matos and João Bicker.

 

### Libraries used

My main inspiration for the implementation of this work and its core components
are the delicious [sketch.js](<http://soulwire.github.io/sketch.js/>) and
[Coffee Physics](<https://github.com/soulwire/Coffee-Physics/>) from [Justin
Windle](<http://soulwire.co.uk/>). Others follow that should have my most
respectable acknowledgment, since they make life so much easier:
[has.js](<https://github.com/phiggins42/has.js/>),
[devbridge/jQuery-Autocomplete](<https://github.com/devbridge/jQuery-Autocomplete>),
[nanoScroller.js](<http://jamesflorentino.github.io/nanoScrollerJS/>),
[harthur/color.js](<https://github.com/harthur/color>),
[sole/tween.js](<https://github.com/sole/tween.js/>),
[Hyphenator.js](<https://code.google.com/p/hyphenator/>).

 

### License

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0
International License](<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/>).  


![](<https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc/4.0/88x31.png>)

 

 
